DONNING BOARD OF APPEALS
MEETING, I'M CANDICE BRAYER,
CHAIRPERSON OF ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS IS A NINE PERSON
VOLUNTEER BOARD NOMINATED BY
THE MAYOR AND APPROVED BY CITY
COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
BY JOHN BARRETT, THEN THE
APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND WILL
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR REMOTELY
.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEETING IID NINE THREE EIGHT
ONE SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE ZERO
ZERO SEVEN CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD.
WE WILL ALLOW AN APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL FIVE
AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE BOARD
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN APPEAL
TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
OF THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT ON A
TIMELY BASIS.
I BELIEVE JOHN HAS A COUPLE
OF QUICK ANNOUNCEMENTS BEFORE
WE DO THE ROLL CALL.
>> GOOD EVENING.
I AM JOHN ZONING COORDINATOR
FOR THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND
TONIGHT I WOULD JUST LIKE TO
INTRODUCE ONE OF OUR NEWEST
MEMBERS OF THE ZONING
OF APPEALS.
HER NAME IS ROBERTA SUTTON.
SHE'S TO MY LEFT AND EVERYONE
MAKE SURE YOU GO AHEAD AND
INTRODUCE YOURSELVES AND DO A
ROUND OF GREETINGS AFTER THE
MEETING TONIGHT.
AND ADDITIONALLY WE HAVE A NEW
STAFF MEMBER WHOSE NAME IS ERIC
BRIGNAC.
HE COMES TO US FROM FARMINGTON
HILLS.
HE'S BEEN WITH THE CITY FOR ONE
MONTH AND HE'S A WELCOME
ADDITION.
HE'LL BE ASSISTING ME AS A
ZONING COORDINATOR AS WELL.
AND TONIGHT WE HAVE A GUEST
APPEARANCE FROM CITY STAFF.
ALSO CITY PLANNER JILL THATCHER
WILL ASSIST ME AND THE FIRST
PETITION RIGHT.
>> THANK YOU, JOHN.
WELCOME EVERYBODY.
MOVING ON TO ROLL CALL CANDICE
BRAYER I AM HERE DARMA
ECKERMANN MCDANIEL HERE DREW
JENSEN HERE.
DAVE DEVOTEE DAVE ALREADY HERE.
CHRISTINA
LUSSAC, YOUR PENNY
LASKOSKI HERE.
ROBERTA HERE.
>> JULIE WETHERBEE HERE WE HAVE
A QUORUM MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS
COMMENTS ON THE AGENDA?
IT'S NOT TO HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA.
THANK YOU, JULIE.
SUPPORT I'M DREW ON FAVOR SAY I
BUY A POST MOVING ON TO
APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
>> WE HAVE MINUTES FROM THE
OCTOBER TWENTY SECOND TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE ZIBA MEETING.
>> ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS,
COMMENTS, CORRECTIONS TO THOSE
MINUTES IF NOT TO HAVE AN
MOTION TO APPROVE THE MINUTES.
THANK YOU PERRY.
SUPPORT OR SUPPORT FROM DAVO IN
FAVOR SAY AYE AYE I OPPOSED.
>> ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS
FIRST WE HAVE PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO
THREE THREE FOUR NINE FIVE
EHRHARDT RONJA THANK YOU.
SO BEKERMAN REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNER IS SEEKING A
VARIANCE FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT NINETEEN POINT ONE
SUBSECTION A PARKING STANDARDS
APPLICABLE ST PAUL'S SCHOOL IS
PROPOSING TO CONSTRUCT A TWIN
FIVE HUNDRED EIGHTY SQUARE FOOT
ADDITION FOR A NEW LIBRARY AND
RECONFIGURE THE PARKING LOT AND
EXPANDING AT FIFTY NINE SPACES
FROM ONE HUNDRED AND TWELVE
SPACES TO 171.
THE APPLICANT REQUEST RELIEF
FROM THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS FOR REQUIRED
ELECTRICAL VEHICLE PARKING
SECTION FIVE POINT NINETEEN
POINT TWO SUBSECTION C REQUIRES
TEN PERCENT OF THE INSTALLED
SPACES WHICH WAS SUPPOSED TO BE
EIGHTEEN AND 40 PERCENT EV
CAPABLE SPACES OF SIXTY NINE.
THE APPLICANT IS PROPOSED TO
PROVIDE ATV INSTALL SPACES AND
FOR EV READY SPACES THIS THE
VARIOUS REQUEST OF 75 SPACES.
ADDITIONALLY THE PROPERTY IS
ZONED ARE ONE B AND AT THIS
POINT I WILL TURN IT OVER TO
JILL THATCHER, CITY PLANNER WHO
IS THIS IS HER SITE PLAN
PROJECT.
SHE HAS MORE INFORMATION ABOUT
THE PROJECT ITSELF.
>> THANK YOU, JOHN.
SO YES, THIS PLANNED PROJECT
THE WHICH HAS TO SORT OF LARGER
PARTS TO IT.
THE FIRST IS THAT THEY WANT TO
PUT A LIBRARY EDITION ON TO ST.
PAUL'S LUTHERAN SCHOOL AND THE
SECOND PART OF THE PROJECT IS
TO RECONFIGURE THE PARKING LOT
TO MAKE IT SAFER AND EASIER FOR
KIDS AND BUSSES AND CARS TO ALL
INTERACT AND BECAUSE THEY ARE
PULLING UP ALL THE PAVEMENT AND
RECONFIGURING WHAT'S THERE NOW
IT DID TRIGGER THE NEED FOR
SITE PLAN APPROVAL AND THE NEED
FOR SITE PLAN APPROVAL IN TURN
TRIGGERS THE NEED FOR ELECTRIC
VEHICLE PARKING SPACES.
THIS IS AN ASK FOR A VARIANCE
OF SEVENTY FIVE SPACES.
THE APPLICANTS LET'S SAY WE
TALKED ABOUT THE BEST WAY TO
APPROACH IT AND THE APPLICANTS
THOUGHT THAT THEY SHOULD BASE
THE VARIANCE REQUEST ON THE
PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES THEY
HAVE IN THE BUILDING AND RATHER
THAN PROVIDING ALL OF THE
PARKING SPACES THEY'RE
PROPOSING THAT BECAUSE THEY
HAVE TWENTY EIGHT FULL TIME
EMPLOYEES AT THE SCHOOL THAT
THEY WOULD PROVIDE EIGHT EEVI
SPACES WHICH IS TWENTY ONE
PERCENT OF THE FULL TIME
EMPLOYEES AND FOR IVR SPACES
WHICH IS ELEVEN PERCENT OF FULL
TIME EMPLOYEES.
AND I DO WANT TO NOTE THAT THE
LIBRARY PROJECT WILL NOT RESULT
IN ANY INCREASE IN KIDS OR IN
FULL TIME EMPLOYEES.
IT'S JUST A NEW LIBRARY BUT
THEY'RE TRYING TO UNDERTAKE ALL
OF THIS THIS PROJECT AT ONCE.
AS YOU KNOW THE PURPOSE AND
INTENT OF THE PARKING ORDINANCE
IS TO ENSURE PARKING LOTS ARE
PREPARED FOR THE FUTURE WHILE
PROVIDING IMMEDIATE SUPPORT FOR
ELECTRIC VEHICLES.
AND THE BEST TIME TO DO THIS IS
AT THE TIME OF A SIGNIFICANT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ON THE
SITE.
I'M NOT GOING TO GET INTO ALL
OF THEIR RESPONSES TO THE
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL.
YOU HAVE THOSE IN THE STAFF
REPORT BUT THAT'S IT FOR ME.
>> THANK YOU ALL RIGHT.
IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITORS YOU'LL SEE THE
FIRST MAP IS THE ZONING MAP AND
YOU SEE THE HIGHLIGHTED PARCEL
,THE CENTER, YOUR SCREEN AND
IT'S JUST NORTH OF GATTI'S ROAD
INTO THE WEST OF AREHART ROAD.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOCATION
MAP SHOWING THE SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS.
>> IN THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE
ZOOMED IN AERIAL PHOTO OF THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY.
IT'S AN ALL THE SURVEY THAT WAS
SUBMITTED WITH THE SITE PLANNED
PROJECT ITSELF AND I'M GOING TO
LET JILLS DESCRIBE THE NEXT
COUPLE SLIDES.
SURE.
SO THIS THIS SLIDE IN THE GRAY
BOX ON THE TOP SHOWS THE
PARKING LOT AREA.
THE SCHOOL WAS BUILT IN 1964.
IT WAS ONLY FOUR CLASSROOMS AT
THE TIME.
IT'S GROWN A COUPLE OF TIMES
SINCE THEN.
I THINK MOST RECENTLY WAS IN
THE 1980S SORRY NINETEEN NINETY
NINE WAS THE LAST BIG ADDITIONS
TO THE SCHOOL.
>> IT'S KIND OF HARD TO SEE ON
HERE BUT EVERY SPACE WHERE YOU
SEE A BLACK DOT WHICH IS MOST
OF THE SPACES IN THE MAIN
PARKING LOT RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE
OF THAT GRAY BOX THOSE ARE
WOULD BE REQUIRED ELECTRIC
VEHICLE PARKING SPACES AND IT'S
IT'S A LOT OF THEM.
JOHN, WOULD YOU JUMP TO THE
NEXT SLIDE?
>> THIS JUST SHOWS THE THE
LAYOUT OF THE CIRCULATION ON
THE SITE WOULD YOU GO TO THE
NEXT ONE?
>> THAT'S THE ONE THAT YEAH.
THIS IS THE ONE I LIKE.
THIS SHOWS ARE PROPOSED
LOCATIONS FOR THE REDUCED
NUMBER OF ELECTRIC VEHICLE
PARKING SPACES AND WHERE THAT
THEY WHERE THEY WOULD GO WHEN
YOU INSTALL EMPTY SPACES YOU
ALWAYS HAVE TO ADDRESS A.D.A
ACCESSIBLE PARKING FIRST SO YOU
CAN SEE THAT THE ACCESSIBLE
SPACES ARE ASSIGNED THERE AND
STRIPED ON THE LEFT SIDE OF THE
PARKING LOT.
THOSE ALL HAVE TO EITHER
INSTALL OR IF YOU READY I'M NOT
SURE WHICH BECAUSE I CAN'T READ
THAT IT'S TOO SMALL BUT ALL A
LITTLE CIRCLE WITH A DOT IN
THEM ARE WHERE THE NEW SPACES
WOULD BE.
NEXT SLIDE PLEASE.
>> THESE ARE SOME PHOTOS THAT
MR BARRETT TOOK OUT ON THE SITE
.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE'S A
PRETTY DEEP SET BACK FROM THE
ROAD TO THE SCHOOL.
THIS IS THE MAIN DRIVEWAY
ENTRANCE ON THE LEFT SIDE
OF THE SCREEN PICTURE OF THE
PARKING LOT LOOKING AT THE
SCHOOL THE LEFT SIDE OF THE
SCREEN WHERE THAT WHERE THAT
BLACK SUV IS NOT THE FAR LEFT
BUT THE NEAR LEFT IS I BELIEVE
WERE THE THE HANDICAPPED
PARKING SPACES ARE NEXT SLIDE.
>> THIS IS ANOTHER VIEW LOOKING
AT THE GYMNASIUM ON THE LEFT
HAND SIDE JUST A COUPLE MORE
SHOTS OF THE PARKING LOT AND
THERE'S A SOCCER FIELD BELOW IT
.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT'S THE END OF STAFF
PRESENTATION AND WE'LL TAKE ANY
QUESTIONS THAT YOU HAVE AT THIS
TIME.
>> THANK YOU, JOHN.
THANK YOU, JILL.
ANY QUESTIONS?
CHRISTINA?
SO JOE, ARE THE CHANGING THE
CONFIGURATION OF THE OVERALL
PARKING?
>> YES.
AND THEY ARE ADDING SPACES TO
SO WHAT WE'RE LOOKING AT RIGHT
NOW THE LIGHT GREEN BOX THAT
THAT'S THE PROPOSED BUT HOW
DOES THAT COMPARE TO THE
EXISTING OVERLAY THAT IF YOU GO
BACK UP TO THE ALTAR SURVEY
IT'S IT'S IT'S PRETTY CLOSE
RIGHT NOW IF YOU GO CAN YOU
ZOOM IN ON THAT, JOHN KNEW
THAT.
I DON'T THINK IT'LL LET ME ZOOM
IN.
OK, JUST JUST GO THE AERIAL
PHOTO AERIAL PHOTO THAT WOULD
WORK.
YOU ALSO HAVE IT IN YOUR
PACKETS AS WELL.
AERIAL PHOTOS SORRY THE ZOOM
THE AERIAL PHOTOS ZOOM.
>> YEAH.
THEY'RE YOU KNOW THERE THAT
ONE.
YEAH.
SO SEE RIGHT NOW YOU CAN TURN
IN OFF OF EARHART ROAD AND YOU
MAKE A BIG LOOP AROUND THE
PARKING LOT AND THERE'S PARKING
ALL IN BETWEEN ER YOU KNOW
FILLING IT IN NOW IF YOU SKIP
AHEAD TO THE SITE PLAN YOU CAN
SEE HOW THE CIRCULATION HAS
CHANGED A LITTLE BIT.
IT'S NOT A BIG CHANGE BUT NOW
SEE HOW THE DRIVE I'LL BE ON
THE TOP.
YEAH.
AH NO SORRY ON THE RIGHT IS
THIS ONE THIS IT'S THERE'S MORE
SEPARATION BETWEEN THE PARKING
STALLS AND THIS DRIVE IT'S
PUSHED OUT IT'S IT'S IT'S A
MODEST CHANGE REALLY.
AND THEN THEY'VE RECONFIGURED
SOME OF THE SPACES THAT ARE ON
THE SITE AND AROUND THE EDGES
OF THE OTHER DRIVES.
SO I'LL GO BACK TO THE YOU SEE
THAT DRIVER DIFFERENT IN THE
NEW DRESS RIGHT THERE.
YEAH.
AND WHAT IS THAT THE OTHER SIDE
BUT IS THAT THERE'D BE A GREAT
QUESTION FOR THE APPLICANT WHEN
IT'S THEIR TURN IS SO THERE
COULD BE SOME ROOM FOR
EXPANSION OF PARKING IN THE
RIGHT ZONE.
YOU MEAN IN THE FUTURE
POTENTIALLY YEAH.
YEAH.
ANY KIND OF I CAN ASK IF THERE
IS SOME STRUCTURE THERE.
>> YEAH YEAH.
I'M NOT SURE IF THOSE ARE FOUR
SQUARE COURTS OR IF IT'S SOME
SORT OF STORMWATER BUT YOU'LL
BE ABLE TO TELL YOU DAVE THANKS
.
A COUPLE OF THINGS WHICH REMIND
ME EVERY INSTALLED IN EV READY
WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE IF
INSTALLED IS ONE THAT YOU CAN
DRIVE UP TO TODAY AND PLUG YOUR
CAR IN.
EVERYBODY HAS EVERYTHING EXCEPT
THE THE UNIT THAT YOU HOOK UP
TO YOUR CAR IT'S ALREADY
UNDERGROUND.
IT WOULD BE VERY QUICK TO
INSTALL THAT ABOVE GROUND AND
THEN EVC BE COMPATIBLE IS IS IT
HAS ALL THE CONDUIT UNDERGROUND
BUT YOU WOULD STILL NEED TO DO
MORE WORK BELOW GRADE BEFORE
YOU COULD PUT THE CHARGERS UP
ON TOP.
SO AVR IS IS CLOSER TO DONE
THAN ABC.
>> GOT YOU SO SO ARE PROPOSING
HEAVEY AND DVR RIGHT AND NO
EVC.
THAT'S CORRECT AND MAYBE THIS
IS FOR THE APPLICANT.
I'M LOOKING AT THIS PICTURE ON
THE SCREEN NOW AND THERE IS
THAT LOWER DRIVE THAT COMES OFF
THE CIRCULATING DRIVE AND IT
LOOKS LIKE A BUNCH OF PARKING
PLACES THERE HUH?
ARE THOSE STAFF PARKING PLACES
OR WHAT ARE THOSE DO YOU KNOW?
I DO NOT KNOW THE THANK YOU.
ONE OTHER QUESTION WHERE IS
WHENEVER YOU DO PARKING LOT YOU
NEED STORMWATER RETENTION OR
DETENTION IS THAT COULD YOU
MAYBE GO TO THE GREEN THE
ACTUALLY THE AREA OF THE FIELD
AND SHOW ME WHERE THAT
STORMWATER DETENTION I'M GOING
TO LET THE ENGINEER THE PROJECT
ENGINEER TALK TO YOU ABOUT
STORMWATER.
OK, THANK YOU.
I CAN TALK IN GENERALITIES BUT
SHE CAN TALK IN DETAILS.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR STAFF.
>> RIGHT IF THE PETITIONERS
HERE IF YOU COULD PLEASE COME
FORWARD SIGN AND STATE YOUR
NAME YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
>> EVENING EVERYBODY.
MY NAME IS DAN PERSKI.
I'M A MEMBER OF ST. PAUL HAD
TWO DAUGHTERS THAT TOOK THEIR
ST. PAUL EDUCATION, THRIVED AT
PIONEER AND MOVED ON.
I NOW HAVE GRANDCHILDREN AT
SCHOOL SO I'M ENGAGED WITH THE
WITH THE PROGRAM AND PROUD TO
BE PART OF THE ANN ARBOR
COMMUNITY AND PROVIDING AN
EDUCATIONAL SERVICE FOR A SMALL
NUMBER OF FAMILIES THAT THAT
ENJOY THE ST. PAUL EXPERIENCE.
SYDNEY HAS BEEN OUR ONE KEY
TEAM LEADERS AND PUTTING THE
PROJECT TOGETHER AND SHE HAS
REMARKS FOR THE GROUP.
>> THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS SYDNEY KEENAN.
I'M WITH A.W. OR ANDERSON
ECKSTINE AND WESTRAC EASIER TO
A.W. WE ARE THE CIVIL
ENGINEERING FIRM AND THE
ARCHITECTURE FIRM ASSISTING ST
PAUL WITH THEIR FLIGHTPLAN PLAN
PROJECT AS JOHN AND JILL SORT
OF GAVE THAT UPDATE TO AN
EXISTING SCHOOL EXISTING
PARKING LOT THEY ARE DOING SOME
EXPANSION TO THE PARKING LOT
BUILDING A LIBRARY AND AS SUCH
HAVE TRIGGERED THE NEED TO MEET
THE ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS AND
THAT IS WHY WE ARE HERE TODAY.
SO I WILL OPEN UP THIS
PRESENTATION AND IT IS SHORT
BUT SWEET.
>> LET'S SEE.
I WISH I KNEW THE ONE OF THESE
BUTTONS TO START SINTRA ARE YOU
TRYING TO MAKE YOUR LARGER.
YEAH, I JUST WANTED TO HAVE
THAT ONE DOWN THERE AND GOT IT
.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
SO WHAT WE'VE PREPARED TODAY ON
THIS SLIDE SHOW IS ESSENTIALLY
THE REQUIREMENTS AS BY THE
ORDINANCE WHAT JOHN HAS ALREADY
SORT OF GONE OVER SO I WON'T
SPEND TOO MUCH TIME ON THAT.
BUT AS YOU MENTIONED THERE'S
ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY ONE
SPACES THAT WE'RE PROPOSING AS
PART OF THIS PROJECT AND BY THE
ORDINANCE WE WOULD BE REQUIRED
TO INSTALL EIGHTEEN EEVI AT THE
BEGINNING AND THEN HAVE SIXTY
NINE SPACES CAPABLE OR CONDUIT
IN THE GROUND READY IN THE
FUTURE TO INSTALL IF NEEDED.
SO WE'RE HOPING TO GAIN
APPROVAL TONIGHT TO VARY FROM
THIS REQUIREMENT NOT WITH THE
INTENT TO ELIMINATE EVVIE
ALTOGETHER BUT WITH THE
ATTENTION TO BETTER ALIGN WITH
THE DEMAND OF ST. PAUL AND
THEIR STAFF AND REALLY WHAT THE
ROUTE OF THIS PROJECT IS ABOUT
.
SO WE HAD LOOKED AT SOME
COMPARABLES IN THE AREA.
ONE OF THOSE WAS ST FRANCIS WHO
IN OUR OPINION COMPARES PRETTY
CLOSE THERE ALSO A CHURCH AND A
SCHOOL AND THEY HAD BEEN TO THE
BOARD PREVIOUSLY AND THEY WERE
SUCCESSFUL IN GAINING A
VARIANCE.
I'M VERY SIMILAR PLATFORM SO WE
LOOKED THEIR PRESENTATION AND
WE LOOKED AT WHAT WAS THEIR
REASONING AND THEIR THOUGHT
BEHIND IT AND IT ALIGNED RATHER
CLOSELY WITH OURS AND THAT'S
THAT WE WANT TO PROVIDE FOR THE
MAJORITY USE OF THE SITE THEN
90 PERCENT USE OF THE SITE AND
THAT IS OUR FULL TIME STAFF FOR
SCHOOL MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY.
SO THIS CHART SIMPLY SHOWS WHAT
ST FRANCIS HAD FIFTY FULL TIME
STAFF THEY WERE GRANTED A
VARIANCE OF TWENTY PERCENT FOR
EVERY INSTALL AND TEN PERCENT
FOR EVERY HOUR.
SO WE IN VERY SIMILAR FASHION
APPLIED THAT RATIONALE TO OUR
SITE.
THIRTY EIGHT FULL TIME STAFF IF
YOU DO THAT EVEN NUMBERS WE'RE
PROVIDING EIGHT SPACES EEVI
WHICH IS SLIGHTLY OVER THE
TWENTY PERCENT AND THEN FOUR
SPACES WE ARE AGAIN SLIGHTLY
OVER THE TEN PERCENT.
>> WE BELIEVE THAT THIS REQUEST
MEETS THE INTENT OF THE
ORDINANCE BY PROVIDING THE E.V.
ALIGNED WITH OUR MOST FREQUENT
USE OF THE SITE AND WE WOULD
HOPE THAT YOU AGREE WE BELIEVE
THIS REMAINS SYNCHRONOUS WITH
COMPARABLE LOCATIONS IN THE
CITY AND REALLY WITH THAT WE'VE
KIND OF GOT SOME ADDITIONAL
ITEMS HERE FURTHER JUSTIFYING
OUR RATIONALE WHY WON'T READ
THEM VERBATIM BUT WE DO BELIEVE
THAT THIS DOESN'T LIMIT ST PAUL
IN THE FUTURE FROM PROVIDING
ADDITIONAL SPACES.
SO IF THE DEMAND IS THERE THEY
STILL HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY AT
ANY POINT TO MEET THAT WE THINK
THE COMPLIANCE PERCENTAGE LEVEL
EXCEEDS THAT OF OTHERS IN THE
AREA AND SAINT FRANCIS AND WITH
THAT DAN HAS A COUPLE MORE
COMMENTS.
I GUESS I'D JUST LIKE TO ADD I
MEAN THE PRACTICAL USE OF A
SCHOOL PARKING AT LEAST IN OUR
CASE IT HAS ONE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY SOME ODD SPACES BUT
THEY'RE RARELY ALL FULL.
THERE'S A LOT OF CHAOS IN THE
MORNING FOR PICK UP.
I'VE BEEN A PART OF THAT.
I'VE BEEN A PICK UP PART OF THE
PROCESS FOR DROP OFF AND PICK
UP AN ATTENDING EVENTS SO FOR A
SHORT PERIOD OF TIME THE LAST
THIRTY SECONDS FOR THE MOST
OF THE TIME THERE AREN'T PEOPLE
THAT ARE THERE ALL NIGHT.
IT'S NOT RESIDENTIAL, IT'S NOT
COMMERCIAL.
THERE AREN'T EXTENDED PERIODS
OF TIME WHERE PEOPLE BESIDES
THE STAFF ARE PARKED SO THE THE
USE OF ADDITIONAL
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WON'T BE
USED.
WE WANT TO BE PART OF THE
FUTURE BUT WE CAN ONLY BE SO
MUCH AND EVEN IF WE HAD THE
SPACES THEY LIKELY WOULDN'T BE
USED.
HI.
THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS WITH JOHN.
IF YOU COULD GO BACK TO THAT
ONE SLIDE WHERE I ASKED THE
QUESTION ABOUT THAT ADDITIONAL
WHAT LOOKED LIKE ADDITIONAL
PARKING ON THE SIDE DRIVE IS
THAT POSSIBLE FOR YOU TO FOR
YEAH I'M GOING TO HAVE TO ASK
SEATON TO RELINQUISH THIS
EXISTING POWER POINT AND GO
BACK TO STAFF.
WE HAVE TO TAKE I I THINK GET
YOU TO REMOVE YOUR PULL IT OUT
AND THEN CLICK OFF OF IT TO ON
THAT SCREEN I BELIEVE WOULD
HELP.
>> SO WHICH SIDE ARE YOU WANT
THE ONE WITH THE CIRCULATION
PATTERN THAT I'M NOT SEEING
THAT ONE BUT I'M NOT SEEING ON
MY SCREEN NOW LET'S TRY IT ON
MY SCREEN.
OK WELL I'LL LOOK AT THAT SO
SEE THAT LOWER SIDE THING
THERE?
IT LOOKS LIKE SOME PARKING
SPACES AT THE BOTTOM THERE.
>> WHAT ARE THOSE PARKING
SPACES FOR IF THAT'S WHAT THEY
ARE SO THOSE ARE FOR I GUESS
THE REASON WHICH SOME MAY BE
ASKING IS WHY THE ADDITIONAL
PARKING AND IT'S FOR THAT
OCCASIONAL IMPERATIVE OF EITHER
CHURCH EVENT OR THE USE OF THE
SOCCER FIELDS DRAWS OCCASIONAL
LARGE CROWDS.
SO THOSE PARKING SPACES DOWN
THERE ARE TO PROVIDE PARKING
FOR EITHER THE GYMNASIUM USE
THE SOCCER FIELD, USE THOSE
OCCASIONAL HIGH DEMAND PARKING
NEEDS.
THEY'RE NOT INTENDED FOR STAFF
BUT I GUESS STAFF COULD USE
THEM IF THEY SO CHOSE OK AND
ANSWERS MY QUESTION.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS CHRISTINA,
A QUESTION TO YOU JUST PICKING
UP THE COMMENT THAT I HAD TO
START AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
PRESENTATION SO THAT ZONE OR
CAN DESCRIBE THE EXISTING EAST
EDGE OF THE PARKING RELATES TO
THE NEW EAST EDGE OF THE
PARKING LOT, THE DRY PARKING
AND THEN EXPLAIN WHAT THAT JUST
THAT THE EMPTY SPACE LOOKS LIKE
THEY'RE SO HARD DOING THE SAME
THING.
I AM BASICALLY THE EAST EDGE.
SO THE FIRST ANSWER IS THAT
DASHT KIND OF RECTANGLE THAT
HAD LIKE THE FOUR SQUARES IN IT
THAT'S JUST AN EXISTING
BLACKTOP BASKETBALL FOUR SQUARE
THINGS LIKE THAT FOR THE KIDS.
SO THAT IS A GOOD INDICATOR
KIND OF THE EAST WEST CHANGES
EVERYTHING TO THE WEST OF THAT.
THE MAIN BULK OF THE PARKING
THAT WAS ALL EXISTING AND
ALMOST IN A ONE FOR ONE
REPLACEMENT ALL OF THE EXISTING
ISLANDS WITHIN THE PARKING LOT
ARE TO REMAIN SO IF YOU LOOK AT
AN OLD AND A NEW THOSE ISLANDS
WITHIN WE DID ADD NEW INTERIOR
ISLANDS IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
PARKING LOT BUT THE OUTER ONES
ARE THE BONES AND AND THE
DRIVEWAY AND THE WEST THE EAST
SIDE OF THAT BASKETBALL FOUR
SQUARE AREA IS NEW IN THE
INTENT OF THAT IS TO LENGTHEN
THE AMOUNT OF QUEUEING
SPACE
AVAILABLE FOR PARENT AND DROP
OFF AND IT IS ALSO TO EXTEND
OVER TO THE PARKING LOT TO THE
NORTH SO THAT THE PRICKET AND
DAMAGING WON'T BE BETTER ON
THIS THE PRICKET THAT WAS
SPACES TO THE NORTH ARE FOR
PARENTS TO BE ABLE TO PARK GET
OUT OF THEIR CAR AND WALK THEIR
CHILD AS OPPOSED TO STAYING IN
THE QUEUE OF THE DROP OFF.
SO IN THE FUTURE THAT COULD BE
A BUILDABLE THAT BOTTOM RIGHT
HAND CORNER COULD BE A
BUILDABLE EXPANSION FOR PARKING
AND EVEN IF NEEDED TO THE SOUTH
OF THE BASKETBALL I WOULDN'T
RULE IT OUT.
>> IT WOULD REQUIRE SOME
ADDITIONAL ENGINEERING AND SOME
RETROFITTING WE ARE PROPOSING
AS A PART OF OUR LANDSCAPE
REQUIREMENT WE NEED TO INCLUDE
BIO RETENTION SO THERE IS GOING
TO BE A BUYER RETENTION AREA
WITHIN THAT.
BUT CERTAINLY IF WE NEEDED MORE
PARKING IN THE FUTURE WE COULD
RELOCATE AND MEET THEIR
REQUIREMENT ELSEWHERE THAT CAME
UP AS A MEMBER WHO'S BEEN PART
OF THE CHURCH SINCE THE LAST
EXPANSION WHICH WAS IN NINETY
NINE.
I KNOW THAT WHEN WE PUT THE
PLANS TOGETHER FOR THIS WE HOPE
SOMEDAY WE CAN EXPAND AGAIN AND
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT WHEN
WE TALK WITH OUR DESIGNERS AND
OUR PROFESSIONAL HELP THAT THE
PARKING LOT THAT WE'RE PUTTING
IN NOW THE REASON WE'RE WILLING
TO SPEND A LITTLE EXTRA MONEY
IN NOW IS BECAUSE IT SHOULD
SERVE OUR NEEDS BOTH NOW AND IN
THE FUTURE.
SO THAT'S WHY WE ARE WE EMBRACE
THE FACT THAT WE WANT TO ADD
SOME ELECTRICAL CAPABILITY IN
THERE AN APPROPRIATE AMOUNT.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER'S?
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS NOW OPEN.
SO PLEASE COME FORWARD.
SIGN IN STATE YOUR NAME IF YOU
ARE ACCESSING THE MEETING
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
OR USE THE RAISED IN FUNCTION
IF YOU ARE ACCESSING THROUGH
THE WEBLINK
ARE THERE ANY
CALLERS ON LINE OR NO NOT ON
LINE AT THIS TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OK WITH THAT THE PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED AND WE ARE IN
DISCUSSION CURIOUS I SHOULD
HAVE ASKED YOU THIS EARLIER BUT
SO SECTION FIVE POINT NINETEEN
POINT TO POINT SEE IS THAT
APPLY FOR SCHOOL OR LIKE WHAT
GROWS UP UNDER THAT SECTION FOR
THE REQUIREMENT OF THE
PERCENTAGES STATIONS?
THAT'S THE GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
THAT APPLY TO ALL PARKING LOTS,
ALL PARK INCLUDING SCHOOL.
OK YEAH SO YEAH I WAS UP INTO
IT YEAH.
THANKS.
>> OK I HAVE A QUESTION THAT
MIGHT BE A LITTLE CONVOLUTED SO
IF I'M REMEMBERING CORRECTLY
WHEN SAINT FRANCIS CAME FOR
THEIR VARIANTS IT WAS BEFORE
THE EVE PARKING REQUIREMENTS
WERE MODIFIED TO ONLY APPLY TO
THE NEW PART OF THE PARKING LOT
OR THEY LIKE IMPACTED PART
OF THE PARKING LOT.
SO I I'M REMEMBERING THAT'S HOW
THEY CAME UP WITH THIS WHOLE
WELL WE'LL BE IT ON STAFF KIND
OF THING.
AND THEN SINCE THEN THE
ORDINANCE HAS CHANGED TO ONLY
APPLY TO THE PORTION OF THE
PARKING LOT THAT'S BEING
IMPACTED BY THE DEVELOPMENT.
SO IF YOU'VE GOT AN EXISTING
PARKING LOT THAT YOU'RE
CHANGING, YOU DON'T HAVE TO
RETROFIT ALL OF IT FOR EVERY.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
THEY'RE INCREASING THE NUMBER
OF PARKING SPACES ONSITE,
RIGHT?
YES.
SO HOW DOES THE JUST FOR
CURIOSITY'S SAKE THE TWENTY
PERCENT EEVI THAT THEY ARE
PROPOSING IF THEY JUST DID
TWENTY PERCENT OF THE NEW
SPACES THAT THEY'RE ADDING
WHATEVER THAT NUMBER IS HOW
DOES THAT COMPARED TO THE EIGHT
OR WHATEVER THEY'RE PROPOSING
AS PART OF THEIR I COULD ANSWER
YEAH IT'S IN THE STAFF YOU'RE
ADDING FIFTY NINE NEW SPACES
WHICH WOULD BE TWENTY PERCENT
OF FIFTY NINE WERE SIXTY
ESSENTIALLY WOULD BE TWELVE
WHICH IS EXACTLY BETWEEN THE
INSTALLED IN ALREADY THAT'S THE
NUMBER THAT THEY'VE ARRIVED IN.
>> OK SO I CAN JUST QUIT DO
THAT CALCULATION SO THAT'S
THAT'S GREAT.
>> THANK YOU JULIE.
>> BUT THE WHOLE PARKING LOT IS
BEING IT SOUNDS LIKE THERE'S
BEEN VILE SWAILS ADDED AND SO
THE WHOLE PARKING LOT IS BEING
ESSENTIALLY REMOVED AND WORK IS
BEING DONE RIGHT.
AND THAT'S WHY THEY ARRIVED AT
SUCH A LARGE NUMBER OF REQUIRED
PARKING SPACES BECAUSE THE
WHOLE PARKING LOT IS GETTING
REMOVED AND REDONE AND THAT'S
KIND OF THE POINT OF THE
ORDINANCE IS RIGHT WHEN WHEN
YOU'RE DOING YOU'RE DOING MORE
THAN JUST MILLING THE TOP LAYER
AND YOU KNOW, PUTTING DOWN NEW
ASPHALT.
BUT WHEN YOU'RE ACTUALLY
DIGGING IT UP AND THAT'S THE
POINT OF THE ORDINANCE IS THAT
THAT'S THE TIME TO INSTALL THE
CONDUIT BEFORE YOU PUT DOWN THE
NEW CONCRETE OR ASPHALT PETTY.
SO THAT'S WHY THAT ARE SO EASY
FOR
WHICH MEANS THAT IF YOU
LOOK AT THE CURRENT STAFF WHICH
IS AT THIRTY EIGHT, THAT MEANS
AT LEAST 15 SPOTS HAVE TO BE
CAPABLE.
AND SO I'M WONDERING IF EVEN
THOUGH IT WORKS FOR TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE THAT'S LIKE THE
INTENTION OF THE ZONING
ORDINANCE WAS TO MAKE IT READY
FOR THE FUTURE.
>> WE'RE REALLY MEETING THE
FUTURE REQUIREMENTS MIKE.
I MEAN WHEN I THINK BACK TO
WHEN I WAS THERE I WENT BACK
AND LOOKED AT THE MINUTES FROM
OUR MEETING IN TWENTY TWENTY
ONE AND I THINK IT'S VERY
SIMILAR TO THE ST FRANCIS
SITUATION.
ALL OF US WEREN'T ON THE BOARD
THEN BUT THE ARGUMENT THAT THIS
IS A SCHOOL IN A CHURCH WHERE
YOU HAVE A CERTAIN NUMBER
OF PEOPLE WHO PARK THERE FOR
WORK SMALL SUBSET AND THEN IT
SPIKES DURING EVENTS WHETHER
THAT'S SERVICE OR A SPORTING
EVENT OR SOMETHING FOR A VERY
SHORT PERIOD OF TIME AND THEN
BACK DOWN MY MEMORY OF OUR
CONVERSATION FOR THOSE OF US
WHO WERE ON THE BOARD THEN WAS
THAT WAS VERY PERSUASIVE TO US.
WE VOTED FIVE TO ONE YES ON
THAT.
THIS IS ALMOST IDENTICAL
NUMBERS EVEN A LITTLE BIT MORE
WHEN WE SAW THE NUMBERS UP
THERE.
THEY'RE DOING A LITTLE BIT MORE
THAN ST FRANCIS DID FROM A
PERCENTAGE AND SO I REMEMBER AT
THE TIME STRUGGLING WITH THIS A
BIT BECAUSE THERE'S NOTHING
REALLY UNIQUE ABOUT THE
PROPERTY OTHER THAN THE USE
OF IT.
BUT THAT USE IS PRETTY UNIQUE
LIKE THAT.
THAT'S WHAT PERSUADED ME WAS
THIS IS A CHURCH IN A SCHOOL
WHERE THE MAJORITY OF THE TIME
IT'S A SMALL SUBSET OF PEOPLE
THERE FOR ANYTHING LONGER THAN
ONE HOUR.
AND SO I'M GOING TO STICK WHERE
I VOTED IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE TO
GO YES.
>> I MISS DAVE.
>> I WAS HERE ALSO WHEN HE DID
THE DISCUSSION FOR ST FRANCIS
AND YOU KNOW I AGREE WITH
MIKE'S POSITION ON THIS.
I AGREE GENERALLY THAT WE'RE
ASKING ESSENTIALLY THE CURRENT
ORDINANCES ASKING FOR A LARGE
EXPENDITURE OF INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT WILL GO UNUSED AND WASTED.
I'M GOING TO VOTE IN FAVOR
OF THIS.
I THINK THEY ARE MEETING THE
WHAT WE'RE AFTER IN TERMS
OF ADDING OH EV CHARGERS AND
THEY ARE ADDING ESSENTIALLY
TWENTY PERCENT OF THE NEW
SPACES THAT THEY'RE ADDING
WHICH IS TO BE A RELEVANT
ARGUMENT TO APPROVE THIS.
>> OH VARIANCE REQUEST JULIE.
>> SO I THINK I'M LOOKING AT IT
A DIFFERENT WAY WHERE I DON'T
SEE THE THE ZONI IT GOES WITH
THE LAND AND THEY COULD SELL
THIS TOMORROW AND THEN THIS NEW
PRODUCT THIS NEW LOT WOULDN'T
BE READY AND IT COULD BE AN
OFFICE AND IT COULD BE I MEAN
GRANTED IT'S UNLIKELY I JUST
DON'T SEE WHERE IT FITS ANY
OF IT CERTAINLY DOESN'T SEEM
LIKE THE MINIMUM VARIANCE.
IT'S A REALLY BIG VARIANCE TO
ME AND AND I DON'T SEE THERE'S
NO PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY
PECULIAR TO THE PROPERTY.
I MEAN I THINK IF WE SAY WELL
THIS USAGE DOESN'T DO IT, THEN
WE SAY THAT FOR EVERY BUILDING
THAT DOESN'T HAVE YOU KNOW,
ISN'T FULL TO THE BRIM WITH
PEOPLE WHO COME IN ALL DAY
EVERY DAY LIKE I DON'T
UNDERSTAND HOW THIS IS
DIFFERENT.
I MEAN MAYBE WE DON'T AGREE
WITH THE ORDINANCE BUT I DON'T
SEE HOW THIS PROPERTY IS ANY IS
IS SPECIAL IN ANY WAY.
>> I DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW JUST
PEOPLE COME IN AND SAY WELL WE
DON'T HAVE THAT MANY PEOPLE AND
WE DON'T NEED TO FOLLOW THE
ARDIENTE OR WE DON'T CHOOSE OR
WANT TO OR THINK IT'S RIGHT TO
FOLLOW.
I DON'T I DON'T UNDERSTAND THE
THE LOGIC OF THAT.
I CAN'T I DON'T SEE HOW THERE'S
ANYTHING HERE THAT WHERE I CAN
SAY YES, THIS THIS MAKES SENSE
FOR THIS USER BECAUSE THAT'S
NOT REALLY HOW WE'VE KIND SAID
THAT THIS SHOULD BE DONE.
SO I I I'M I'M HAPPY TO KEEP
LISTENING BUT I JUST DON'T I
DON'T I DON'T SEE HOW THIS IS
DIFFERENT.
I DON'T I DON'T UNDERSTAND THE
THE PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES OR
THE WHAT THE VARIANCE SUGGEST
ALSO STRUGGLE WITH THAT BEING
THE FACT THAT I DON'T
UNDERSTAND LIKE
HOW LIKE I
UNDERSTAND HOW THEY ARRIVED AT
THIS.
NO BUT I DON'T UNDERSTAND LIKE
IF MEETING THE MINIMUM
REQUIREMENT VERY OFTEN BUT LIKE
OTHER THINGS LIKE YOU KNOW A
SETBACK IS THE MINIMUM A LOT IS
THAT YOU CAN BUILD INTO THE SET
BACK RIGHT TO ME THIS IS A HUGE
GAINS AND THERE COULD BE LIKE
COMPROMISES THAT COULD BE MADE
IN MY MIND THAT I WAS LIKE OK,
YOU MAYBE ARE NOT GOING TO
INSTALL STATIONS EACH ONE
OF THOSE SLOTS.
RIGHT.
BUT YOU ARE DEFINITELY GOING TO
MAKE SURE THAT THE CABLE AND IS
THERE RIGHT WHEN YOU HAVE THE
PARKING LOT UP
.
SO I'M SURE COST IS IT I MEAN
IT HASN'T BEEN BROUGHT UP BUT I
KNOW THAT THERE'S A I'M JUST
GUESSING A LARGE INFRASTRUCTURE
COST WITH THAT EVEN IF IT'S
DOWNSTREAM IT'S I DON'T KNOW
WHAT THOSE ARE BUT THANK GOD I
THINK THAT'S A DRIVER TOO AND
BRINGING EXPERIENCE BUT I JUST
SPECULAR I AM.
I AM AND MAYBE TO RESPOND TO
YOUR COMMENTS PERHAPS THE
CONVERSATION BACK AND I WASN'T
HERE EITHER TWENTY TWENTY ONE
WHICH I DON'T THINK I WAS THAT
THERE WAS A DISCUSSION IT
SOUNDS BASED ON THE USE THAT IT
REALLY GOES IT SPIKES UP AND
THEN IT IF THERE'S A COMPLETE
LULL MAYBE THAT'S THE
DIFFERENTIATOR WITH LIKE A
TYPICAL OFFICE SETTING TO WHERE
IT'S GOING TO BE CONSTANT
BETWEEN THE NINE TO FIVE.
BUT THAT'S A VARIABLE TO
NEGOTIATE IN AROUND TO APPLY
SOME KIND OF LOGIC DUE TO THE
USE OF THIS JUST A THOUGHT,
DAVE.
UM, AT ANY POINT I'M READY TO
MAKE A MOTION.
I JUST ON A DAY AND YOU KNOW,
THEY COULD NOT REPLACE PART
OF THE PARKING LOT CAN COME IN
AND ASK FOR BASICALLY WHAT
THEY'RE ASKING FOR.
THEY WOULDN'T REALLY NEED A
VARIANCE THEY COULD GET THERE.
TWENTY PERCENT JUST BY DOING
PART OF THE PARKING LOT.
HOWEVER, THIS IS THE TIME TO DO
IT AND IT MAKES SENSE TO ME.
I'M LOOKING AT THE CIRCULATION
PATTERN COMPARED WITH WHAT
EXISTS NOW AND THERE'S A HUGE
IMPROVEMENT THAT'S COMING ALONG
WITH THE ADDED SPACES AND IT
JUST MAKES SENSE.
I WOULD HATE TO HAVE POLICIES
THAT DIS INCENTIVIZE BY ADDING
SIGNIFICANT INFRASTRUCTURE
COSTS DIS INCENTIVIZE MAKING
THESE SORTS OF IMPROVEMENTS AND
I'M FEARFUL THAT THAT'S WHAT
THIS ORDINANCE IS DOING IN THIS
CASE.
AT THE SAME TIME I SEE IT
TOTALLY IN PARALLEL WITH WHAT
OUR DECISION WAS WITH THE ST.
FRANCIS CASE.
SO I'M GOING TO VOTE FOR THIS
AT ANY POINT IF YOU'D LIKE ME
TO MAKE A MOTION I'M READY.
I'M STRUGGLING WITH THIS
BECAUSE IN THE ST. FRANCIS CASE
THEY WERE NOT TEARING UP ALL
OF THEIR PARKING.
THE ORDINANCE APPLIED TO ALL
THE PARKING BECAUSE IT HADN'T
BEEN REVISED YET TO ONLY APPLY
TO THE NEW PARKING BUT THEY
LEGITIMATELY WERE ONLY
IMPACTING A PORTION OF THEIR
PARKING LOT AND IN THIS CASE I
CAN SEE JULIE'S POINT AND
PATTI'S POINT WHERE THEY ARE
TEARING UP THE WHOLE THING AND
MAYBE ALL OF THE SPACES THAT
ARE REQUIRED DON'T MAKE SENSE
BASED ON THIS USE AND THE FACT
THAT THERE'S LESS THAN THIRTY
CARS IN THE PARKING LOT ON ANY
GIVEN DAY MOST OF THE TIME.
BUT OUR EIGHT EEVI SPACES AND
FOR EVERYDAY SPACE IS REALLY
THE MINIMUM.
I'M NOT SURE THAT'S WHERE I'M
STUCK.
THANK YOU.
READY FOR I'M READY IF THERE'S
ONE DISCUSSION.
>> YEAH OF COURSE DOES ORDNANCE
ALSO APPLY TO LIKE LIKE MALLS
AND STADIUMS AND LIKE ANY SORT
OF SPACE LIKE THAT SO I MEAN
THAT TO ME IS A VERY SIMILAR
USE CASE WHERE MOST OF THE TIME
LIKE YOU HAVE EMPLOYEES PARKING
THEIR FULL TIME.
THAT'S A SUBSET AND PEOPLE ARE
COMING IN FOR A SPECIAL EVENT.
BUT I'M ASSUMING WE WOULD I'M
ASSUMING THAT IN THOSE CASES
LIKE THEY WOULD ALSO HAVE TO
PLOT AND COMPLY WITH THIS.
SO I GUESS I'M NOT SURE HOW
THEY USE CASES THAT DIFFERENT
THAN OTHER PLACES THAT HAVE A
SHORT TERM INFLUX OF PEOPLE.
THE QUESTION IS MAYBE MORE FOR
VIRGILE IT COULD THEY IN THEORY
TAKE PART PART OF THEIR PARKING
LOT, MEET THAT STANDARD AND
THEN LATER DO THE OTHER HALF
AND NOT HAVE TO APPLY FOR
VARIANCE?
>> IF THEY DID IT IN TWO
PHASES, WOULD THAT BE ANY
DIFFERENT?
I MEAN THEORETICALLY YES.
IF YOU DON'T TOUCH ALL THE
PARKING SPACES THEN WE'RE NOT
GOING TO EVE FOR THE PART
THAT'S UNTOUCHED.
OK, BUT I HAVEN'T HEARD THAT SO
I WAS JUST CURIOUS.
YEAH THAT WAS OF OK ZIBA TWENTY
FIVE DASHTY OR ZERO THREE THREE
FOUR NINETY FIVE EARHART ROAD
IN ACCORDANCE WITH STANDARDS
FOR APPROVAL THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A
VARIANCE OF 75 ELECTRIC VEHICLE
SPACES FROM SECTION FIVE POINT
NINETEEN POINT TO C PARKING
REQUIREMENTS.
THE PROPERTY IS COMPLETING THE
SITE PLAN PROJECT PROCESS AND
171 TOTAL PARKING SPACES ARE
BEING PROPOSED SECTION FIVE
POINT NINETEEN POINT TO C
REQUIRES 10 PERCENT EEVI THAT'S
EIGHTEEN SPACES AND FORTY
PERCENT HEAVEY C NINE SPACES.
THE APPLICANT REQUEST
INSTALLING EEVI SPACES AND FOUR
VAR SPACES A TOTAL OF 87 EV
SPACES AS REQUIRED AND THE
APPLICATION PROCESS PROPOSES 12
EV SPACES.
THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION WE HAVE
SUPPORT.
THANK YOU DREW
.
>> DAVE DAVE ALREADY.
YES CHRISTINA YES PATTY NO
ROBERTA NO JULIE NO
I ALSO VOTE
NO MIKE YES.
>> TRUE YES ONE TWO THREE FOUR
YESES THE REQUEST IS DENIED
MOVING ON TO PETITION CBA
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO TWO
FOUR TWO TWO ZERO ONE LAFAYETTE
ROAD JOHN, BEFORE WE GO ANY
FURTHER MEMBER CLUE ZACH HAS AN
ANNOUNCEMENT I NEED TO RECUSE
MYSELF FOR THIS PETITION.
I VOTE NEIGHBOR
JARADAT.
I HAVE NO ISSUE WITH THAT.
WHAT DOES THAT REQUIRE DEGREES
IN THERE AND I WAS JUST A
FAMILY MEMBER LIKE A FINANCIAL
YEAR.
WELL, IT'S ALSO IF YOU DON'T
THINK YOU CAN BE IF IF YOU FEEL
LIKE IF YOU'RE A NEIGHBOR TO
THE PROPERTY AND YOU JUST FEEL
LIKE YOU MIGHT HAVE YOU KNOW,
IF YOU DON'T FEEL 100 PERCENT
COMFORTABLE THAT YOU COULD YOUR
YOUR IT'S YOUR JUDGMENT YOUR
DECISION OF WHETHER YOU FEEL
LIKE YOU MAY HAVE A CONFLICT
BUT THERE ARE CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS.
>> IT'S NOT A JUDGMENT YOU HAVE
TO RECUSE.
CORRECT.
IF YOU HAVE IF YOU WORK FOR THE
FIRM AND YOU'RE A FINANCIAL
DECISION OR YOU HAVE A VESTED
INTEREST, YOU OWN THE PROPERTY
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT OR A
RELATED FAMILY RELATION SHIPS.
YEAH, YEAH.
OK, I WAS JUST CURIOUS WHAT BUT
IN THIS CASE THE MEMBER WHO
INFORMED ME THAT SHE WAS A
NEIGHBOR OF THE PROPERTY AND
SHE WAS GOING TO RECUSE HERSELF
AND I JUST HADN'T HEARD THAT
COME UP IN MY TOWN, YOU KNOW.
ALL RIGHT.
THE NEXT PETITION BEFORE US IS
ZIBA 25 ZERO ZERO TWO FOUR AND
THAT'S FURTHER ADDRESSED AS 22
ONE LAFAYETTE ROAD THROUGH
COOMA PROPERTY OWNER IS
REQUESTING A VARIANCE OF FIVE
POINT SEVENTY FIVE FEET FROM
TABLE FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN DASH
ONE SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
ZONING DISTRICT DIMENSION'S IF
GRANTED THE VARIANCE WILL ALLOW
THE EXISTING TWO HUNDRED SQUARE
FOOT PERGOLA AND THE SIDE YARD
TO REMAIN ONE POINT TWENTY FIVE
FEET FROM THE SIDE LOT LINE THE
PROPERTY IS ZONED ARE WHEN A
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT AND REQUIRES A MINIMUM
SIDE YARD SETBACK OF SEVEN FEET
.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
AT THE INTERSECTION OF CONCORD
ROAD AND LAFAYETTE ROAD.
THE PARCEL IS NORTH OF GATTI'S
AVENAL AVENUE AND THE ANGEL
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE HOME WAS CONSTRUCTED IN
2013 IS APPROXIMATELY THREE
THOUSAND NINETY SQUARE FEET IN
SIZE.
THE PARCEL IS TWENTY ONE
THOUSAND THIRTY NINE SQUARE
FEET IN AREA ZONING COMPLIANCE
PERMIT WAS NOT WAS NOT OBTAINED
FOR THE PERGOLA PRIOR TO
INSTALLATION.
A PERMIT HAS SUBSEQUENTLY BEEN
APPLIED FOR AND A SURVEY HAS
SINCE BEEN COMPLETED.
THE SURVEY INDICATES THE
STRUCTURE IS ONE POINT TWENTY
FIVE FEET FROM THAT SIDE LOT
LINE AT HIS CLOSEST POINT IF
YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE MONITOR YOU WILL SEE THE
ZONING MAP AND THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY IN BLUE IN THE CENTER
OF YOUR SCREEN AND I SAID IT'S
JUST NORTH OF GATTI'S ROAD
THERE.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOCATION
SHOWING EXISTING CONDITIONS AND
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND THE
NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO AND YOU'LL SEE IN
THE SURVEY THAT THE WAY THE
HOUSE IS CONFIGURED IT REALLY
THIS IS THE SIDE
AH BUT IT
REALLY SERVES AS THE BACKYARD
AND THE PERGOLA IS
APPROXIMATELY RIGHT WHERE MY
CURSOR IS BEING SHOWN.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND YOU CAN SEE THE
TEN FOOT BY 20 FOOT ALUMINUM
PERGOLA IDENTIFIED AND POINTED
OUT RIGHT HERE AND IT SAYS ONE
POINT TWENTY FIVE FEET AT ITS
CLOSEST POINT AT THE SOUTHEAST
CORNER OF THE STRUCTURE.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SITE PLAN
THAT WAS SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT SHOWING THE EXACT
INFORMATION I'VE DISCUSSED
PREVIOUSLY AND THESE ARE THE
PHOTOS THAT I TOOK ON MY
INSPECTION.
YOU SEE THE PERGOLA AND ITS
RELATIONSHIP TO THE FENCE WHICH
IS APPROXIMATELY RIGHT ON THE
PROPERTY LINE.
>> THIS IS THE FRONT OF THE
HOME AND THIS IS THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE HOME.
THIS IS COMING AROUND TO THE
EAST SIDE OF THE LOT AND YOU
CAN SEE THE PERGOLA IN ITS
CURRENT CONFIGURATION
RELATIONSHIP TO THE FENCE AND
THE ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNER.
YOU CAN KIND OF SEE THE
ADJACENT HOME AND THROUGH THE
TREES THERE A LITTLE BIT
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
DISTANCE BETWEEN THE FENCE AND
THE STRUCTURE, RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN THE STRUCTURE AND THE
BACK OF THEIR HOUSE MORE OF THE
SAME AND THAT CONCLUDES THAT
PRESENTATION THIS TIME.
>> AND I WILL TAKE ANY
QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY HAVE.
THANK JOHN.
QUESTIONS.
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONERS HERE IF YOU
COULD PLEASE COME FORWARD, SIGN
IN, STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD YOU WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES.
>> HOW DO I SIGN IT?
I THINK THERE SHOULD BE A
PEOPLE SCIENTIST HERE
SPEAKING
HERE.
YES.
WONDERFUL.
GOOD EVENING.
MEMBERS OF THE ZONING BOARD MY
NAME IS SORT OF KHAMA MY WIFE,
TWO KIDS AND I.
WE LIVE AT TWO TO ZERO IN
LAFAYETTE IN ANN ARBOR AND
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK ABOUT OUR REQUEST FOR
THE SIDE YARD SETBACK VARIANCE
JUST IN SOME CONTEXT WE USED TO
LIVE IN ANN ARBOR.
WE MOVED ABOUT TEN YEARS AGO.
WE MOVED BACK LAST YEAR AND
BOUGHT THE HOUSE AND WHEN WE'RE
LOOKING FOR HOUSES LOOKING FOR
SOMETHING WITH A NICE BACKYARD
WE COULDN'T REALLY FIND
SOMETHING IN THE AREA.
WE WOULD LOOK FOR SOMETHING IN
THE BUYING THIS HOUSE WHICH
DOESN'T IT STILL DOESN'T HAVE A
FUNCTIONAL BACKYARD WOULD BE
SORT OF DONE WHAT WE CAN WITH
THE SET UP THE HOUSE AS JOHN
SAID ON THE LAWN THAT WAS
ACTUALLY SPLIT IN JANUARY 2013
WITH NEIGHBORS THE SAINTS AND
AS YOU GUYS CAN SEE THAT HAS
GOT A PARCEL WITH NO
TRADITIONAL BACKYARD AND I
CLEARLY FOUND OUT FROM JOHN
WHAT WE HAVE IS TECHNICALLY A
CYDIA NOT IN THE BACK BACKYARD
.
THE TECHNICAL BACKING OF THE
HOUSE IS ON A SLAB ON A FACING
THE STREET AND IT'S NOT
FUNCTIONAL GIVEN THE AND THE
LACK OF PRIVACY.
SO FOR US THE SMALL AREA BEHIND
OUR HOUSE IS THE ONLY SPACE
THAT SERVES AS A BACKYARD FOR
NORMAL FAMILY USE WITH ANY
MODICUM OF PRIVACY.
AS YOU GUYS SEE WE INSTALLED
THE PERGOLA.
I DO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
WE SHOULD HAVE GONE TO THE
PERMITTING PROCESS FIRST WE HAD
ASKED AROUND AND WE WERE UNDER
THE IMPRESSION THAT AS LONG AS
IT WAS AN OPEN STRUCTURE
WITHOUT ANY SIDE COVERAGE IT
WOULD NOT REQUIRE A PERMIT.
CLEARLY WE WERE WRONG AND FOR
THAT I AM VERY, VERY SORRY.
THAT MEANS DOING IT OURSELVES.
IT WAS IT WASN'T LIKE A
CONTRACTOR THING WHERE WE WOULD
HAVE FOUND OUT ANYWAYS.
AS JOHN SAID AGAIN IT'S ABOUT A
ONE POINT FIFTY FIVE FEET FROM
THE EAST SIDE LOT LINE AND I
THINK THE CITY'S INTERPRETATION
WOULD REQUIRE US TO MOVE IT TO
SEVEN FEET.
AND I THINK IF YOU IF YOU KIND
OF LOOK AT THE SIZE OF THAT
SIDE YARD, IF WE IF WE MOVE THE
PERGOLA SEVEN FEET THEN WE
BASICALLY HAVE NO BACKYARD TO
SPEAK OF WHICH IS USABLE IN THE
WAY THAT WE'RE CURRENTLY USING
IT RIGHT NOW.
I DO WANT TO EMPHASIZE THAT THE
SAINTS IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORS
BEHIND THE FENCE THEY'VE
SUBMITTED A LETTER OF SUPPORT.
I THINK, JOHN, YOU YOU'VE HAD
THAT SEVERAL OTHER DECENT
NEIGHBORS HAVE ALSO SUBMITTED
LETTERS OF SUPPORT.
SO WE HAVE TO THE NEIGHBORS ARE
SUPPORTIVE OF THE PAGONE ITSELF
.
WE HAVE SOME SPECIFIC REASONS
WHY WE THINK YOU SHOULD GRANT
OUR REQUEST.
ONE IS THAT THIS IS A PRACTICAL
ISSUE THAT IS UNIQUE TO THIS
PROPERTY, ESPECIALLY IN THAT
AREA MOST IN THE AREA HAVE A
FUNCTIONAL BACKYARD VIDAURRE
AND OBVIOUSLY IF PROVOCATIVE TO
DENY THE VARIANCE.
IF YOU DO THEN IT WOULD
EFFECTIVELY REMOVE ANY FUNCTION
LOCATION FOR US TO HAVE ACCESS
TO THE STRUCTURE LIKE A PERGOLA
AND IT REQUIRES SOME DEMOLITION
REPAIR BUT THAT'S OK.
BUT I THINK OUR SENSE IS THAT
IT WOULD DENY ORDINARY
PERMITTED RESIDENTIAL USE THAT
WE SHOULD OTHERWISE HAVE ACCESS
TO IN IN A HOME IN TERMS
OF SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE TO
NEIGHBORS IN PUBLIC.
WE HAVE SUPPORT PETITIONS FROM
OUR NEIGHBORS WHO ARE VERY GIVE
IT THE PAGODE AS IT IS AND THEY
DON'T GET THAT.
THEY DON'T GET DISTURBED BY IS
THE LAST THING I WOULD SAY IS
LIKE THIS HARDSHIP WASN'T
CREATED BY US.
IT STEMS FROM THE LAND DIVISION
THAT HAPPENED IN 2013 AND THE
EXISTING PLACEMENT OF THE HOUSE
THAT SORT OF WAS DONE BY THE
PREVIOUS OWNERS WHO BUILT THE
HOUSE.
I MEAN FROM OUR PERSPECTIVE
WE'VE BEEN WE'VE DONE THE
MINIMUM NECESSARY FOR US TO
HAVE A BACKYARD WHERE WE CAN
HAVE SOME FAMILY TIME FOR A
FAMILY OF FOUR AND AND THAT'S
REALLY WHAT WE'RE ASKING FOR.
SO WE RESPECTFULLY REQUEST THAT
YOU APPROVE OUR SOCIETY ADVANCE
.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
CONSIDERATION AND HAPPY TO
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS AND AGAIN,
VERY, VERY SORRY FOR DOING THAT
WITH THE VARIANCE IF THAT'S
THAT'S COMPLETELY HONEST AND
JOHN'S BEEN AMAZING TO WORK
WITH TO THANK YOU FOR THAT JOB.
>> THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS FOR PETITIONER.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS NOW OPEN.
NOW IS YOUR CHANCE PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE IF ACCESSING BY PHONE
OR USE THE HAND BUTTON IF
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS ON
EITHER NO ONE ON THE WEB AT
THIS TO THE RIGHT.
>> THANK YOU ERIC.
WITH THAT BEFORE WE GO ANY
FURTHER I DO WANT TO APOLOGIZE
FOR THE CORRESPONDENCE LACKING
OF CORRESPONDENCE IN YOUR STAFF
REPORT BUT I HAVE PULLED UP MR.
KUMAR IS CORRECT THE THE
NEIGHBORS DIRECTLY NEXT DOOR
THE SAINTS THEY ARE TWENTY TWO
THREE LAFAYETTE OR IN SUPPORT A
GENTLEMAN NAMED MATTHEW WIXON
AT 2205 LAFAYETTE SENT IN A
LETTER OF SUPPORT AND AARON
INSTR ALSO SENT IN A LETTER
OF SUPPORT.
ALL RIGHT WITH THAT THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED IN OUR
DISCUSSION.
>> DAVE, I HAVE A QUESTION FOR
STAFF FOR JOHN.
SO I'VE GOT A PERGOLA IN MY
BACKYARD ACTUALLY CLOSER TO THE
HOUSE THAN ANY LATRINE.
THE MY PERGOLA ACTUALLY THIS
PERGOLA HERE HAS THE POSTS
RIGHT AT THE VERY EDGE OF THE
KIND OF THE CEILING STRUCTURE
IF THE POST WERE SEVEN FEET
AWAY AND THE CEILING STRUCTURE
EXTENDED TO WHERE IT IS NOW,
WOULD THAT STILL TRIGGER THIS
SETBACK?
IT WOULD BECAUSE EVEN THOUGH
THE STRUCTURE WOULD THE SUPPORT
STRUCTURE WE WOULD NEED THE
SEVEN FOOT THE THE ROOFS
OVERHANGS AND OTHER TYPES
OF PERTINENCE THOSE STRUCTURES
CAN ENCROACH TWO FEET INTO A
SIDE SETBACK OR A SETBACK.
SO IT WOULD BE ALLOWED TO BE
FIVE FEET AWAY.
>> AND I THINK WHERE SOME
OF THE CONFUSION WITH
PERMITTING MAY HAVE COME IN,
SOMETIMES PEOPLE CALL UP AND
SAY AND I KNOW IT HAPPENS,
WE'RE THE WORLD'S NOT PERFECT
BUT SOMEONE MIGHT CALL IN AND
SAY HEY, I'M GOING TO BUILD
PERGOLA.
IT'S 200 SQUARE FEET.
I NEED A PERMIT.
>> THE INFORMATION MAY HAVE
BEEN CONVEYED WRONG.
PEOPLE YOU DON'T NEED A
BUILDING PERMIT FOR ANY
STRUCTURE TO OUR SQUARE FEET OR
LESS INTO ZONING PERMIT AND
THAT'S THE DIFFERENCE AND THIS
MAY BE SOMETHING THAT I CAN'T
SPECULATE ON THE COMMUNICATION
OR WHAT WAS WRONG BUT THAT'S
WHAT HAPPENS SOMETIMES
FREQUENTLY PEOPLE GET CONFUSED
BETWEEN A BUILDING PERMIT AND
ZONING PERMIT.
>> OK, THANK YOU ROBERT.
IF IF WE WERE TO GRANT THE
VARIANCE, COULD DOES IT ALLOW
FOR THEN A MORE PERMANENT
STRUCTURE TO BE BUILT OR WHAT
IS IT MINIMUM THAT IT'S JUST
THIS OPEN AIR STRUCTURE OR THE
FUTURE BECAUSE THEY'RE ALLOWED
TO HAVE SOMETHING CLOSE TO THE
SIDE YARD?
COULD THEY BUILD SOMETHING MORE
PERMANENT OR A FEW TREES OR.
WELL, YEAH, OR YOU COULD
POSSIBLY KIND OF PUT PARAMETERS
ON THIS VARIANCE IF YOU GRANT
IT SAY YOU KNOW, IT'S IT'S FOR
IT'S FOR THIS PORTION OF THE
SIDE YARD ONLY FOR FOR THIS
PERGOLA STRUCTURE.
BUT GENERALLY YOU KNOW, IT
GRANTS IT GRANTS REALLY FOR
SIZE UP X BUT IF YOU WERE TO
CONDITIONAL IT AND SAY IT WAS
ONLY FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
LIKE THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE
ABLE TO BUILD THEIR HOME ONE
POINT TWO FIVE FEET FROM THE
FLAT LINE.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION WE'RE
READY FOR MOTION RIGHT
ZIBA
TWENTY FIVE D'ASTIER ZERO OR
TWO FOUR TWO TWO ONE LAFAYETTE
ROAD THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS
VARIANTS OF FIVE POINT SEVENTY
FIVE FEET FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN ONE SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT
DIMENSION'S.
IF GRANTED, THE VARIANCE WILL
ALLOW THE EXISTING TWO HUNDRED
SQUARE WITH PAVULON IN THE SIDE
YARD TO REMAIN ONE POINT TWENTY
FIVE FEET FROM THE SIDE LINE.
THE PERGOLA IS TO REMAIN IN ITS
CURRENT LOCATION AND
CONFIGURATION.
THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO HAVE
SUPPORT.
YES, THANK YOU TO MIKE.
YES TRUE.
YES DAVE PARTY NO PATTY YES.
ROBERTA YES.
JULIE YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED MOVING
ON TO PETITION ZIBA TWENTY FIVE
DASH ZERO ZERO THREE FOUR OH
SORRY WE HAVE TO BRING
CHRISTINA BACK RIGHT NOW.
>> MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO
THREE FOUR ONE THREE SIX NINE
JEWITT JAN
SARAH LAWRENCE
PROPERTY OWNER IS REQUESTING A
SIXTY THREE SQUARE FOOT
VARIANCE FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING
DISTRICT DIMENSION'S LOT AREA
MINIMUM THE PROPERTY IS ZONED
ARE ONE BIG SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL AND IS NINETEEN
THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED THIRTY
SEVEN SQUARE FEET AND AREA
PARCELS IN THEIR R-1 BE
DISTRICT REQUIRE A MINIMUM ON
AREA OF 10000 SQUARE FEET.
THE VARIANCE IF GRANTED WILL
ALLOW FOR APPROVAL OF THE LAND
DIVISION AND THE CREATION OF A
OF ONE NINE THOUSAND NINE
HUNDRED AND THIRTY SEVEN SQUARE
FOOT PARCEL AND ONE TEN
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT PARCEL.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE NORTH SIDE OF JEWETT
AVENUE, WEST OF PACKER STREET
AND THE BRYANT PATTENGALE EAST
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE PROPERTY IS CURRENTLY
VACANT.
THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY LAND TRUST
INTENDS TO COMPLETE A LAND
DIVISION WITH THE CURRENT R-1
ZONING AND THEN APPLY FOR
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMITS TO
CONSTRUCT A SMALL PRIMARY HOME
800 SQUARE FOOT ACCESSORY.
YOU ONLY NEED IT ON EACH OF THE
TWO PARCELS REAR PARCEL AND
FUTURE RESIDENTS ARE REQUIRED
TO BE ACCESSED BY 30 FOOT
PRIVATE EASEMENT.
HE'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE MONITORS.
YOU'LL SEE THE FIRST MAP IS THE
ZONING MAP AND THE SUBJECT
PROPERTIES HIGHLIGHTED IN BLUE
IN THE CENTER OF THE SCREEN AND
AS YOU CAN TELL IT'S JUST EAST
OF IT'S KIND OF IN THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD BETWEEN PACARD
ROAD AND SOUTH INDUSTRIAL.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOCATION
MAP SHOWING SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL PHOTO
OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION.
SO YOU CAN SEE IN THE CENTER
POINT FOUR OR FIVE ACRES
NINETEEN THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED
THIRTY SEVEN SQUARE FEET AND
AREA THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
SUBMITTED PROPOSED LAND
DIVISION SURVEY AND HOW THE
PROPERTY IS TO BE DIVIDED SEE
THE NORTH PARCEL AT NINE
THOUSAND NINE THIRTY SEVEN THE
SOUTH PARCEL THAT'S FRONTIN
JEWITT AVENUE AT 10000 SQUARE
FEET.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS I TOOK AT
THE SITE INSPECTION
ADJACENT
PROPERTY TO THE EAST, ADJACENT
PROPERTY TO THE WEST AND THE
ADJACENT PROPERTIES ACROSS THE
STREET TO THE SOUTH OF THE SITE
PROPERTY AND THAT IS ALL I HAVE
BEST PRESENTATION THIS TIME AND
I WILL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU MAY HAVE QUESTIONS FOR JOHN
PETTY THAT ONE THAT
I'M SORRY
TO SAY THAT ASK THAT QUESTION
AGAIN.
I'M SORRY I DECLINED AND YOU
HAVE TO OR THAT WELL I WILL
ANSWER FOR THE APPLICANT.
I HOPE I GET IT CORRECT BUT
EACH LOT WILL HAVE A PRINCIPAL
STRUCTURE WITH EITHER AN
ATTACHED OR DETACHED DATA.
I'M NOT 100 PERCENT POSITIVE
THAT PROBABLY ATTACHED I THINK
FROM PREVIOUS IT'S STILL TO BE
DECIDED BUT EACH PROPERTY IS
GOING TO HAVE AN 82 AND THE
REAR PARCEL WILL HAVE TO BE
ACCESSED WITH A 30 FOOT WIDE
EASEMENT FOR FOR EASE FOR
EGRESS AND UTILITIES, PUBLIC
UTILITY, WATER AND SEWER
.
>> JOHN, I VAGUELY RECALL A
SIMILAR REQUEST TO THIS.
I THOUGHT IT WAS IN THE SAME
GENERAL AREA.
>> DO YOU KNOW HAVE A GREAT
MEMORY AND I KNEW THIS QUESTION
WAS GOING TO BE, YOU KNOW, LIKE
HOW THAT COMPARES TO THIS
REQUEST.
>> I GUESS AS FAR AS THAT
SCIENCE THAT WAS ZIBA TWENTY
FOUR DASH ZERO ZERO ONE SIX AND
IT WAS LOCATED AT TWELVE FOR
YOU IT JUST DOWN THE STREET ON
THE SOUTH SIDE OF IT AND IT WAS
THE EXACT SAME PROPERTY OR SAME
DIMENSIONS.
SIXTY THREE SQUARE FOOT
VARIANCE MANY OF THESE LOTS IN
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD IF YOU LOOK
AT THE AERIAL PHOTOS, LOOK AT
THE LOT NEXT DOOR THEY'RE ALL
LIKE NINETEEN THOUSAND THIRTY
SEVEN.
>> THERE'S MULTIPLE LIGHTS THE
SAME EXACT SIZE BUT THAT ONE AT
TWELVE NINETY FOUR IT HAD THE
SAME APPLICATION AND SAME
DIMENSIONS AND THAT WAS
APPROVED.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
>> ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONERS HERE IF YOU
COULD PLEASE COME FORWARD SIGN
IN STATE YOUR NAME YOU WILL
HAVE FIVE MINUTES
.
WHAT IS THE NUMBER FOR THIS
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO
THREE FOUR.
>> THANK YOU.
HELLO MY NAME IS SARAH
LAWRENCE.
I'M THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
OF THE ANN ARBOR COMMUNITY LAND
TRUST.
WE CURRENTLY HAVE THIS PROPERTY
UNDER CONTRACT AND WE HAVE A
COUPLE ANOTHER PARCEL ON THIS
STREET AND TWO OTHERS ON THE
STREET.
SO WE'RE HOPING TO BUILD
SEVERAL HOMES ON THE STREET
PART OF A TWENTY SIX HOME
PACKAGE OR PHASE THAT WE
ACTUALLY JUST HAD OUR HOUSING
TIFF APPROVED ON MONDAY NIGHT.
SO WE'RE VERY EXCITED TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH THIS.
WE HAVE ABOUT HALF OF THESE
TWENTY SIX HOMES UNDER THE
RESERVATION WITH WHAT WE'RE
CALLING CRITICAL WORKERS OR
CRITICAL EMPLOYEES AND THESE
ARE THE FOLKS THAT MAKE OUR
COMMUNITY RUN WHO CAN NO LONGER
AFFORD TO LIVE IN THE COMMUNITY
THAT THEY SERVE.
AND SO I'VE BEEN MEETING WITH
THESE FOLKS FOR NINE MONTHS
NOW.
I ALSO HAVE A WAITING LIST
OF OVER SIX HUNDRED AND FIFTY
PEOPLE WHO WOULD LIKE HOMES
HERE AS WELL.
AND SO I'D LIKE TO TELL YOU A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT WHY WE WOULD
LIKE TO BUILD FOUR HOMES ON
THIS SITE INSTEAD OF ONE OR TWO
IF A SINGLE FAMILY HOME WERE
BUILT ON THIS SITE IT WOULD
PROBABLY EXCEED A MILLION
DOLLARS IN PRICE, POSSIBLY MUCH
MORE SOME THE INFILL HOMES ARE
GOING FOR ONE POINT FIVE ONE
POINT SIX ONE POINT SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS BECAUSE OF THE
LAND COST.
FORTUNATELY WE HAVE GOTTEN THIS
UNDER CONTRACT AT A REASONABLE
PRICE FROM A SYMPATHETIC AND
SUPPORTIVE LOCAL PROPERTY OWNER
AND WE WOULD LIKE TO DIVIDE
THIS LOT AND BUILD A PRIMARY
HOME AND AN ACCESSORY HOME ON
EACH OF THE FLATS FOR A TOTAL
OF FOUR UNITS.
AND THE REASON THAT WE DO THIS
IS BECAUSE WITHOUT ANY OTHER
SUBSIDY THIS LOWERS THE COST
OF EACH HOME BY ABOUT ONE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS BY
SPLITTING THE LAND COST AND
SPLITTING THE COST OF THE
UTILITIES, EACH HOME IS
AUTOMATICALLY ABOUT ONE HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS LESS.
SO THAT IS REALLY SIGNIFICANT.
AND THEN WITH OUR TIF APPROVALS
AND OTHER SUBSIDIES WE CAN
LOWER THE PRICES FURTHER AND
WHAT'S SO CRUCIAL FOR OUR
CRITICAL EMPLOYEES IS TO GET
THESE HOME PRICES DOWN BECAUSE
THE MEDIAN HOME PRICE IS FIVE
FIFTY TO SIX THOUSAND IT'S
ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE TO BUY
ANYTHING UNDER THREE HUNDRED
THOUSAND AND YOU NEED AN INCOME
OF PROBABLY AROUND TWO HUNDRED
AND FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS A
YEAR.
SOME OF MY BUYERS WHO HAVE
RESERVATIONS WHO MAY END UP ON
THIS SITE INCLUDE A HIGH SCHOOL
TEACHER AT PIONEER HIGH SCHOOL
NEARBY.
HE IS A FEW YEARS I THINK HE'S
BEEN WORKING THERE FOR FOUR
YEARS BUT HIGH SCHOOL TEACHERS
ARE STARTING AT FORTY FIVE
THOUSAND DOLLARS A YEAR IN ANN
ARBOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS WE HAVE A
MEDICAL ASSISTANT AT THE
HOSPITAL WHO MAY BE THE PERSON
THAT SAVES YOUR LIFE SOMEDAY
WHEN YOU'RE LAYING IN A
HOSPITAL FOR SOME REASON SHE
HAS A SMALL CHILD SO SHE AND
HER HUSBAND HAVE REDUCED WORK
HOURS RIGHT NOW AND THEY NEED A
HOME BECAUSE THEY HAVE A BABY
AND A PUPPY.
WE HAVE A SINGLE MOM WHO WORKS
IN THE PSYCHIATRIC E.R. CARING
FOR COMMUNITY MEMBERS IN
CRISIS.
SHE IS DIVORCED AND SHE HAS
THREE DAUGHTERS AND SHE NEEDS A
HOME THAT SHE CAN AFFORD.
ALL THREE OF THESE FOLKS CAN
AFFORD HOMES AT ABOUT
ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE
THOUSAND DOLLARS AND WE'RE
GOING TO BE ABLE TO BUILD THOSE
HOMES FOR THEM ON THIS STREET.
WE HAVE OTHERS WE HAVE
LIBRARIANS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
LIVE ON THE STREET.
WE HAVE SINGLE DAD WHO'S A
SMALL CHILD LIVES DOWN THE ROAD
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND HE
WOULD LIKE TO BE ABLE TO LIVE
HERE SO THAT HIS DAUGHTER CAN
WALK TO HIS HOUSE WHENEVER SHE
WOULD LIKE AND THAT'S WHY WE
NEED TO BUILD FOUR HOMES ON
THIS LOT INSTEAD OF ONE FOR ONE
POINT FIVE MILLION DOLLARS.
SO WE ARE HOPING THAT YOU WILL
GRANT THE VARIANCE FOR SIXTY
THREE SQUARE FEET SO THAT WE
CAN DIVIDE THIS PARCEL AND
BUILD FOUR HOMES FOR THESE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS THAT SERVE US
EVERY DAY.
THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS FOR THE PETITIONER
DAVE SHOURA.
YES.
QUICK QUESTION.
ACTUALLY I JUST WANT TO SAY I'M
REALLY ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT THE
POTENTIAL THAT THE ANN ARBOR
COMMUNITY THE LAND TRUST BRINGS
TO MEETING THE NEED FOR THESE
SERVICE SECTOR AND EVEN LOW LOW
WAGE LOWER WAGE PERMANENT FULL
TIME JOBS WHICH PAY LIKE YOU
SAID, STARTING SALARY FOR A
TEACHER FORTY FIVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS.
A QUICK QUESTION ABOUT THE
AFFORDABILITY SO PEOPLE HAVE TO
MEET CERTAIN CRITERIA TO BE
ELIGIBLE TO BUY IN YOUR
DEVELOPMENTS.
AND I KNOW I'VE ASKED THIS I
JUST WANT TO HEAR IT AGAIN THE
IS THERE A CAP ON EQUITY
INCREASE SO THAT THE
AFFORDABILITY OF THESE BECOMES
KIND OF BUILT IN PERMANENT
ASPECT OF THIS HOUSING?
SO IT'S NOT AFFORDABLE FOR THE
INITIAL BUYER BUT THEN BECOMES
INFLATES TO MARKET RATE DOWN
THE ROAD.
>> COULD YOU JUST ADDRESS THAT
BRIEFLY?
YES.
SO ALL OF THESE HOMES WILL HAVE
DEED RESTRICTIONS AND WE HAVE
TO SET THESE UP AS CONDOS
BECAUSE THERE ARE TWO UNITS PER
PARCEL AND THEY CAN'T BE SOLD
SEPARATELY THAT WAY UNLESS THEY
ARE SET UP AS CONDOMINIUMS.
SO THIS WILL BE A CONDO
DEVELOPMENT OF FOUR UNITS WHICH
ADDS A LOT OF COST TO THE
HOMES.
UNFORTUNATELY.
SO THERE WILL BE DEED
RESTRICTIONS AND THE CONDO
MASTER DEED ALSO CONTAINS THOSE
DEED RESTRICTIONS AS WELL.
SO THERE ARE TWO ELEMENTS THERE
ALSO BEING BUILT IN SMALL
CLUSTERS LIKE THIS.
SO NEIGHBORS WILL BE AWARE IF
PEOPLE ARE SELLING THEIR HOMES
THE DEED RESTRICTION CONTAINS A
ONE POINT FIVE PERCENT PER YEAR
APPRECIATION CAP SO THEY WILL
BE ABLE TO GAIN SOME EQUITY BUT
IT WILL BE FAR LESS THAN AN
AVERAGE.
TYPICAL HISTORICAL RATE HAS
BEEN ABOUT FIVE PERCENT
APPRECIATION THAT WILL KEEP THE
HOMES AFFORDABLE.
THE COMMUNITY LAND TRUST WILL
ALSO HAVE THE RIGHT OF FIRST
REFUSAL TO PURCHASE THE HOMES
AND WE WILL IN INTEND TO DO
THAT BECAUSE IF WE TAKE THEM
BACK INTO OWNERSHIP, IF WE HAVE
ADDITIONAL SUBSIDY AT THE TIME
WE CAN ACTUALLY LOWER THE PRICE
THE HOMES TO ANOTHER BUYER IF
THE CASE WARRANTS AND WE HAVE
THE FUNDS.
SO IT REALLY IS IMPORTANT WE
INTEND TO KEEP THESE HOMES IN
THE COMMUNITY LAND TRUST IN
PERPETUITY.
SO THE STRUCTURE WHETHER IT
LASTS ONE HUNDRED YEARS OR ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY YEARS WOULD
SERVE GENERATIONS OF OUR
CRITICAL EMPLOYEES AND THEN
WHEN THE STRUCTURE IS OBSOLETE
,THE COMMUNITY LAND TRUSTS
COULD TEAR IT DOWN AND BUILD
ANOTHER HOME AT THAT TIME.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS NOW OPEN.
PLEASE COME FORWARD AND SIGN IN
STATE YOUR NAME.
YOU WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES
.
GOOD EVENING MA'AM.
I LIVE ACROSS THE STREET.
MY NAME IS JAMES SCRIVENS.
I'M AT THIRTEEN 74 GEORGE
STREET.
I'VE LIVED THERE FOR 29 YEARS.
>> I'M A LICENSED DESIGN
PROFESSIONAL.
I'VE PROBABLY DONE DOZENS
OF DOZENS OF PROJECTS IN THE
CITY.
MANY MAY KNOW ABOUT IT BUT MY
BIGGEST CONCERN WITH THIS
PROJECT IS NOT SO MUCH THE
DENSITY BUT IT'S THE
RAMIFICATIONS OF REMOVING
PARKING FROM SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENCE AND BASED ON IF THIS
GOES THROUGH THE THE LACK
PARKING COULD BE FORCED TO THE
STREET BECAUSE THERE'S NO
DEMAND FOR DRIVEWAYS AT THAT
LOCATION BASED ON JUST NEEDING
EGRESS.
I HAVEN'T HEARD FROM THE
PETITIONER WHETHER THERE'S
GOING TO BE PARKING ON SITE
PARKING ONSITE REQUIREMENT.
WELL MAYBE THERE I MAY NOT BE
THERE.
THERE IS NO IF THEY PARK ON THE
STREET THERE'S NO SIDEWALKS.
WE HAVE POSTAL DELIVERY AT THE
STREET SO PEOPLE BLOCK OUR
MAILBOXES AND WE HAVE FROM TIME
TO TIME NOT GOTTEN MAIL.
SO ALL THIS ADDS UP TO AN ISSUE
AS FAR AS WHAT IMPACT THIS
DEVELOPMENT HAS ON STREETS.
GABE, THIS LAST WEEKEND THE
FOOTBALL GAME WAS THERE.
THE STREET WAS COMPLETELY
PACKED ON BOTH SIDES.
YOU HAD TWELVE FEET TO GET DOWN
THE MIDDLE IF PEOPLE START
PARKING ON THE STREET AND THEY
DON'T PARK ON SITE, YOU KNOW,
WITH THE INCLEMENT WEATHER IF
THEY'RE NOT ABLE TO REMOVE
THEIR VEHICLES SNOW AND GET
PUSHED IN AND GET BURIED, THAT
THAT'S THE MAIN CRITICAL POINT
THAT I HAVE HERE IS IS THAT
WHETHER PARKING IS GOING TO
PROVIDED FOR THESE FOUR
ADDITIONAL UNITS WITH THE
AMOUNT OF SEVENTY FIVE OR
SEVENTY TWO POINT FIVE FEET AT
THE STREET, THEY'RE YOU KNOW,
IF THE IF EACH ONE OF THESE
OWNERS HAS A VEHICLE OR TWO OR
THREE VEHICLES AND THEY'RE
PARKING ON THE STREET, HOW MUCH
IMPACT THAT HAS ON OUR STREET
AS A WHOLE AND IF IT CONTINUES
HAPPENED DOWN THAT THEY PUT THE
PROPERTY DOWN THE STREET,
WASN'T NOTIFIED ABOUT THAT.
WE HAVE KLONER THEY'RE GOOD
PEOPLE.
THEY PARK ON THE STREET FOR
THEIR EVENTS TOO.
BUT YOU DO HAVE PARKING AT THE
ON SITE TO WHEN THEY TORE DOWN
THEIR HOUSES AND BUILT THEIR
SCHOOL FACILITY BACK IN 2000,
THEY MET WITH US AND THEY
PROVIDED ENOUGH PARKING FOR
THEIR FACILITY AT THAT POINT
THERE TOO THERE'S A CHURCH AT
THE END OF THE STREET THERE ON
SUNDAYS THEY FILL UP THE STREET
AS WELL OFF OF INDUSTRIAL AIR.
SO MY MAIN ISSUE AROUND WITH
THE 30 SECOND IS THE PARKING
AND WHETHER IT'S GOING TO BE
REQUIRED OR MANDATED AND
WHETHER THE PETITIONER IS GOING
TO PROVIDE IT FOR THE HOUSING
THAT'S THERE AND WHAT IMPACT
THAT HAS ON IT BECAUSE RIGHT
NOW WE WALK UP AND DOWN THE
STREET WITHOUT ANY PROTECTION
AS FAR AS KIDS, LITTLE KIDS, WE
HAVE A WALKING BACK AND FORTH
DOWN THE STREET THE ALSO THE
NUMBER OF CARTS TO GO OUT
MONDAY FOR THE TRASH COLLECTION
THAT STILL THEY'LL HAVE FOR
THREE SPOTS FOR UNITS THAT'LL
BE TWELVE CARTS MAYBE THAT
WOULD TAKE UP THE STREET.
SO ALL THAT IS OUR ISSUE WITH
WHAT'S GOING ON HERE.
SO THIS IS MY ONLY OPPORTUNITY
TO BE HEARD ABOUT THIS ONCE
THIS GOES THROUGH IT'S BY RIGHT
DEVELOPMENT AT THAT POINT.
SO THANK OK, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> IF THERE'S ANYONE REMOTELY
WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
OR USE THE RACE HAND BUTTON IF
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
WE HAVE ONE CALL IN LISTENER
WHO HAS RAISED THEIR HAND NO
ALLOW THEM TO SPEAK NOW.
CALLER FIVE THREE FOUR YOU HAVE
THREE MINUTES TO SPEAK
.
>> CALLER CALLER ANY BY THREE
OR FOUR CAN YOU HEAR US
?
>> I WILL KNOW QUICKLY.
WE DID RECEIVE TWO LETTERS
REGARDING THIS PETITION.
WE RECEIVED A LETTER FROM JANET
AND PAMELA BOGOT INDICATING NO
OBJECTION BUT ASKING THAT THE
FOLLOWING ISSUES ARE ADDRESSED
IN THE DESIGN INCLUDING
ADEQUATE SPACE FOR DRIVEWAY TO
SERVE BOTH HOUSES AND ADEQUATE
PARKING FOR AT LEAST TWO
VEHICLES PER HOUSE.
WE ALSO RECEIVED A LETTER
OF OPPOSITION FROM STEPHANIE
KADAL TERRACE AND JEFF TERRACE
AT THIRTEEN SEVENTY JEWETT
STREET
.
STILL NOTHING FROM OUR ONLINE
NOT GETTING ANY AUDIO.
IT LOOKS LIKE THEY'RE
ATTEMPTING TO SPEAK AND I CAN
SEE THE GREEN BOX SHOWING UP
AROUND THEIR NAME BUT WE'RE NOT
GETTING ANY AUDIO
I HOPE WE CAN
HEAR YOU.
>> GO AHEAD.
YEAH WE CAN HEAR YOU.
NO OH THANK YOU.
I'VE GOT ONE I'VE WHEN HEARD
YOUR YOUR CRITERIA I WANT TO
GET YOU THE BACKGROUND.
I WANTED TO ASK THAT WHERE IS
BEING ACQUIRED BROKER I WORKED
WITH A LOT OF FIRST TIME BUYERS
.
THE LAST THREE ARE TAKING ABOUT
TWO YEARS EACH WITH ONE
DEFINING MOMENT IN OUR GROUP IF
THEY CAN AFFORD OBVIOUSLY QUITE
A BIT OF REPAIR WITH THAT
PERSPECTIVE IT'S VERY DIFFICULT
TO BUY A HOME HERE THE AVERAGE
PRICE LEVEL SUBSIDY PROGRAM FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WAS OVERALL
RENTAL PROPERTIES.
THIS IS ABOUT THE ONLY THING
GOING AND I WANT TO BE ABLE I
TRUST THAT PEOPLE TO GET HELP
WITH OWNERSHIP BUT JUST
SPEAKING IN SUPPORT OF THE
ORGANIZATION AND I COMMITMENT
TO IT AND I WANT TO WRITE TO
YOU THANK YOU FOR YOUR PATIENCE
.
THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER CALLERS ONLINE.
>> NO OTHER CALLERS AT THIS
TIME.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> WITH THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED AND WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
DAVE JOHN, COULD YOU GO BACK TO
THE THIS MAP HERE WHERE THE LOT
SIZES ARE
SO LOOKING AT THIS
MAP, I JUST WANT TO POINT OUT
THAT DOWN THE STREET TO THE
WEST IN FACT IT WAS ONE OF THE
LOTS THAT WE CONSIDERED IN THE
PAST WITH EXACTLY THE SAME SORT
OF DIMENSIONS AS JOHN ZERO IS
ON IT.
THERE ARE VARIOUS LOTS THAT
BASICALLY HAVE THE
CONFIGURATION THAT THIS LOT IF
THE SPLIT IS GOES FORWARD AND
THE DEVELOPMENT IS PROPOSED
GOES FORWARD WOULD BE VERY
SIMILAR TO THOSE LOTS SIZES
RIGHT DOWN THE STREET.
ADDITIONALLY, IMMEDIATELY
ACROSS THE STREET THERE ARE TWO
VERY NARROW LOTS WHICH ARE TO
LOTS AND AGGREGATION TO ABOUT
THE SAME SIZE MAYBE EVEN A
LITTLE SMALLER THAN THIS
PROPOSED LOT SPLIT THAT IF IT
GOES FORWARD, JOHN, DO YOU SEE
WHERE THOSE ARE THE TWO NARROW
PLOTS RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET
FROM THIS LOT?
YES, I DO.
OKAY, AND SO I I THINK THIS IS
CONSISTENT WITH LOT SIZES IN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
ESSENTIALLY WHAT THEY'RE ASKING
FOR IS A DIFFERENCE WHEN THEY
SPLIT THE LOTS OF SIXTY THREE
SQUARE FEET LESS THAN THE TEN
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET A VERY
MINIMAL REQUEST AND LOT SIZE
VARIATION AND ALLOWING WOULD IN
MY OPINION ALLOW SUBSTANTIAL
JUSTICE BEING DONE CONSIDERING
GREAT PUBLIC BENEFITS TO THE
COMMUNITY IN TERMS OF PROVIDING
PERMANENT AFFORDABILITY, NEW
UNITS OF HOUSING THAT WOULD BE
OWNER OWNER OCCUPIED HOUSING
WHICH IS A STRONG BENEFIT TO
THE COMMUNITY.
SO I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THIS.
I THINK THERE ARE MANY REASONS
TO SUPPORT IT AND I LOOK
FORWARD TO BEING ABLE TO SEE
THIS PROJECT HAPPEN.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS
?
WELL, JUST STILL PROCESSING THE
COMMENTS FROM THE GENTLEMAN WHO
LIVES ACROSS THE STREET WAS AT
HIS ADDRESS AND THE CONCERN FOR
REALLY THE ADDED CLUTTER THAT
WOULD RESULT POTENTIALLY IN THE
STREET BINS ARE A FACTOR THE
QUANTITY OF HAVING FOUR
RESIDENCES I MEAN AND THEN PLUS
PARKING THAT'S A CONCERN.
I SYMPATHIZE WITH THEM.
I'M SURE THEY'RE NOT THE ONLY I
I'M JUST GUESSING THEY'RE NOT
THE ONLY ONES THAT ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE RESULT
OF INSERTING FOUR EVEN NEEDED
BUILDINGS ON THE ON THE PARCELS
.
>> SO I HAVE A CONCERN ABOUT
THAT BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE THERE
NEEDS TO BE AN OVERALL ANALYSIS
BECAUSE IF THESE LIGHTS KEEP
REPEATING THAT THIS APPROACH
YOU KNOW WHAT IS GOING TO
HAPPEN TO THE ROAD DO IT AND
JUST SIMPLE TRAFFIC PATTERNS
AND JUST SAFE USE IT SOUNDS
LIKE THERE'S SIDEWALKS EITHER
ON THE STREET, NO SIDEWALKS.
SO IT'S I MEAN THAT THAT'S
CREATING A NOT CONDUCIVE SAFE
ENVIRONMENT.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF THIS IS THE
RIGHT ON PAPER.
I THINK IT LOOKS LIKE AN
APPROPRIATE PLACE TO INSERT
THESE FOUR RESIDENCES.
BUT IN REALITY I THINK I THINK
THERE'S A BIG DISCONNECT.
>> I APPRECIATE WHAT THE
PETITIONER IS TRYING TO DO HERE
BUT I I'M JUST HAVING
RESERVATION ABOUT ABOUT THE
IMPACT TO THE TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND SETTING A
STANDARD TO THANKS JULIE.
I THINK TO THAT BECAUSE IT'S A
PUBLIC STREET, CORRECT?
YES.
AND SO THE THE PARKING IS
AVAILABLE.
WE ALL PAY FOR PARKING EQUALLY
ON PUBLIC STREETS AND
PERSONALLY I'M MORE CONCERNED
WITH HOUSING PEOPLE THAN CARS
AND I THINK WE HAVE A NEED TO
HOUSE PEOPLE AND THIS IS AN
EFFICIENT WAY OF DOING THAT.
IT'S VERY CLOSE TO PUBLIC
TRANSIT, VERY WALKABLE, VERY
BICHLBAUM AND MY STREET THERE
ISN'T ENOUGH PARKING FOR EVERY
HOUSE TO HAVE TWO CARS AND HILL
STREET THERE'S NOT ENOUGH
PARKING FOR PEOPLE TO HAVE TWO
CARS LIKE THAT IS PART
OF LIVING IN A CITY AND LIVING
CLOSE IN LIKE THIS.
THERE ARE OTHER WAYS OF GETTING
AROUND AND THERE MAY BE PARKING
AVAILABLE ON SITE BUT THAT TO
ME IS NOT A REASON TO DENY
HOUSING IF THERE ISN'T PARKING
PEOPLE MAKE DIFFERENT DECISIONS
ABOUT TRANSIT AND THEIR AND IF
THEY NEED PARKING TO LIVE ON
THIS SITE THEN THERE'S A
WAITING LIST OF 600 PEOPLE WHO
I'M SURE SOME OF THEM WOULD NOT
NEED PARKING.
SO I THINK I THINK THAT THAT
PARTICULAR ASPECT DOESN'T IT IS
NOT A CONCERN THAT I HAVE ANY
DISCUSSION.
I'M GOOD TO GO WITH THE
RESOLUTION.
>> THERE'S NO OTHER DISCUSSION.
I THINK WE'RE READY.
THANK YOU, DAVE.
OK, ZEBA 25 DASH ZERO ZERO
THREE FOUR THIRTEEN SIXTY NINE
JEWITT IN ACCORDANCE WITH
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A
VARIANCE OF SIXTY THREE SQUARE
FOOT VARIANCE HERE LET ME TRY
TO GRANTS A SIXTY THREE SQUARE
FOOT VARIANCE FROM TABLE FIVE
POINT SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING
DISTRICT DIMENSION'S LOT AREA
MINIMUM THE PROPERTY IS ZONED
R1 BE SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE
AND IS NINETEEN THOUSAND NINE
HUNDRED THIRTY SEVEN SQUARE
FEET.
PARCELS IN THE R1 BE DESERT
REQUIRE A MINIMUM LOTTERY
OF 10000 SQUARE FEET THE
VARIANCE OF GRANTED WILL ALLOW
FOR APPROVAL OF A LAND DIVISION
AND THE CREATION OF ONE NINE
THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED THIRTY
SEVEN SQUARE FOOT PARCEL IN ONE
TEN THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT PARCEL
.
THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO SUPPORT.
THANK YOU PETIT PETIT YES
ROBERTA.
YES JULIE YES I VOTE YES MIKE
YES YES DAVE.
DAVE YES.
CHRISTINA YES TO THE REQUEST IS
GRANTED MOVING ON TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS WE HAVE NONE NEW
BUSINESS REPORTS FROM COUNCIL
ALDAMA IS NOT HERE FROM ZIBA
TWENTY TWENTY SIX MEETING
CALENDAR I BELIEVE THAT IS IN
OUR PACKETS I ASSUME I HAVEN'T
LOOKED AT IT IN DETAIL THAT
IT'S THE STANDARD FOR WEDNESDAY
WITH THE DECEMBER AND NOVEMBER
MEETINGS COMBINED.
>> SO IT LOOKS LIKE WE NEED TO
VOTE ON THIS JOHN OR IS IT JUST
YES.
OK, I MOVE THAT WE ACCEPT THE
PROPOSED MEETING DATE CALENDAR
WHICH IS THE FOURTH WEDNESDAY
OF EVERY MONTH JANUARY THROUGH
SEPTEMBER THROUGH OCTOBER AND A
COMBINED NOVEMBER DECEMBER
MEETING ON DECEMBER 2ND
OF TWENTY TWENTY SIX.
>> THANK YOU DAVE.
DO YOU HAVE SUPPORT?
YES, THANK YOU DREW
IN FAVOR
SAY I.
I POST I'LL WRITE OUR CALENDAR
FOR NEXT YEAR IS APPROVED
MOVING ON TO COMMUNICATIONS I
BELIEVE WE NOTED ALL OF THE
COMMUNICATIONS THAT WE RECEIVED
AS PART OF THE PETITIONS ALSO
ON OUR PACKETS WE HAD A
PLANNING ACTIVITIES REPORT FROM
THE PLANNING MANAGER BRETT
LENNERT.
JOHN, I DIDN'T KNOW IF HE
WANTED TO MENTION ANYTHING
ABOUT THIS.
I THINK IT'S JUST A SUMMARY
OF CASES AND ACTIVITY OVER THE
LAST YEAR.
>> THERE'S SOME INFORMATION IN
THERE, SOME INTRODUCTIONS TO
STAFF PAST AND PRESENT, SOME
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS, SOME
STATISTICS ABOUT THE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS, ABOUT
PLANNING COMMISSIONS, CITY
COUNCIL, SOME GRANT BOARD AND
IT'S JUST A BASICALLY AN ANNUAL
REPORT.
IT'S IN YOUR PACKET.
YOU CAN READ IT AT YOUR LEISURE
.
I DID NOTE THAT CHRISTINA NEEDS
TO BE ADDED TO THAT.
>> YES, I AM FOR I SAW IT WAS
ON THE EMAIL TO INFORM RENTECH
SO WE KNOW WE HAVE MADE THAT
CORRECTION.
>> THEN YOU ARE ON THE TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR REPORT REFITS THAT
I NEED MORE EMAILS.
>> YES YES YEAH IN RELATION TO
THAT I JUST WANT TO THE RETIREE
SAYS HERE ARE SOME OF THE
PEOPLE THAT HAVE WORKED WITH US
HERE AT ZIEBA AND I JUST WANT
TO CALL THEM OUT AS HARD
WORKING PEOPLE THAT I FEEL LIKE
I MEAN A GREAT HONOR TO HAVE
BEEN ABLE TO WORK WITH THEM.
KRISCHAN THAT KAWALSKY ME AND
KILL THREE PEOPLE WHO I'VE
PERSONALLY MET THROUGH MY
RELATIONSHIP HERE WITH THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS AND I
WANT TO THANK THEM FOR THEIR
EMPLOYMENT AND SERVICE LOVE
SERVICE TO THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY
.
TWENTY SIX YEARS TWENTY SIX
YEARS EIGHTEEN YEARS.
THAT'S A LONG TIME TO MAKE THAT
SORT OF A JOB COMMITMENT TO OUR
COMMUNITY.
I WANT TO THANK THEM AND JEFF
WHO I DON'T KNOW AS WELL FOR
HIS THIRTY YEARS OF SERVICE.
I JUST WANT TO THANK THOSE
FORMER EMPLOYEES WHO HAVE
RETIRED.
>> THANK YOU TO ALL RIGHT.
PUBLIC COMMENT IF THERE'S
ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC WHO
WISHES TO ADDRESS THE ZIBA,
NOW'S YOUR CHANCE.
NO ONE IS HERE IN PERSON WITH
US IF THERE'S ANYONE REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE OR USE
THE RACE HAND FEATURE.
>> WE HAVE NO REMOTE ATTENDEES
OF THE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU WITH THAT DO WE HAVE
A MOTION TO ADJOURN THE MOTION
FOR MY SUPPORT FROM JULIE IN
FAVOR SAY AYE AYE OPPOSED.
WE ARE ADJOURNED.
THANK YOU EVERYONE.
SUSAN